Tap BLE API Documentation

General description
Bluetooth Low Energy (or BLE) is a new standard that emphasizes connectivity with low power
devices.
The Tap is a BLE v4.2 device, backwards compatible with BLE v4.0, in peripheral mode. Every
BLE v4.0 central device can connect to the Tap device.
Usage of the keyboard and mouse is done over the standard HID over GATT interface, which
most of mainstream devices, such as Windows 8.1/10 laptops or iPhones since 4S, support.
Custom protocol can be used to interact with the Tap without using the HID interface for any
kind of application.

Device discovery
Scanning
The Tap is advertising when it's not connected.
The advertised data contains a 128-bit custom UUID to distinguish it from other BLE devices.
The device name itself is not unique to the device as it can be modified by the user.
The 128-bit UUID is: C3FF0001-1D8B-40FD-A56F-C7BD5D0F3370
Connecting & pairing
The device is connectable as long as it's not already connected to a peer device.
For proper usage with the Tap, the Tap must be also paired (bonded) and not just connected.
To detect a Tap in a paired devices list, use the Tap UUID for filtering.
If it's currently connected, it must be disconnected from the active peer.
Disconnected on the peer can be done by turning off the Bluetooth connectivity or by hitting a
disconnect button, if applicable.

Usage of API
Tap is communicating over GATT for information exchange between the Tap and the central
device.
The Tap is a GATT server and is exposing several standard services and 2 custom ones.
Any central device may communicate with the API after connection.
For certain operations, higher ATT MTU (Maximum transmission unit) of 185 is required and
expected from the central to support.
Which operation require that are TBA.

Types of API
Battery level
A standard Battery Service is available, according to BLE specifications.
Any bonded central device may read the battery level from the Battery Level characteristic.
Device information
A standard Device Information Service is available, according to BLE specifications.
Any bonded central device may read these fields:
• Manufacturer Name String
• Serial Number String
• Hardware Revision String
• Firmware Revision String

Tap proprietary
Custom 128-bit service contains the main API for the Tap. The UUID of the service
is: C3FF0001-1D8B-40FD-A56F-C7BD5D0F3370
The following characteristics are available:
• Tap data. UUID: C3FF0005-1D8B-40FD-A56F-C7BD5D0F3370. Properties: Notify
Support service is being used for the API. It's UUID: 6E400001-B5A3-F393-E0A9-
E50E24DCCA9E.
There's a single support characteristic in the support service. UUID: 6E400002-B5A3-F393-
E0A9-E50E24DCCA9E. Properties: Write
Tap proprietary protocol

General description
The is extracting a handful of gestures from its sensor using complicated algorithms.
Our SDK exposes those via the Tap protocol and allows anyone to receive events on any gesture
detection.
The Tap has 2 usage modes: Text mode and Controller mode. By default, the device is in Text
mode and all normal functions, such as mouse and multi-taps are mantained.
When the propritrary protocol is desired, the Tap must enter Controller mode by application
request.
During Controller mode, the Tap has reduced functionally but will send events according to the
protocol.
When done with Controller mode, the app must tell the Tap to exit the controller mode.
Events are sent as an array of bytes from specific characteristic under the Tap Service. Multibyte fields are in Little Endian format.
Controller mode
The Tap must be entered into controller mode by performing a write action on the support
characteristic with the Enter controller mode 4 byte magic packet.
To remain in controller mode, the enter controller mode magic packet must be sent every 10
seconds.
To exit out of controller mode, the exit controller mode magic packet must be written.
Packet description Byte 0 Byte 1 Byte 2 Byte 4
Enter controller mode 0x03 0x0C 0x00 0x01
Exit controller mode 0x03 0x0C 0x00 0x00
During the controller mode, the Tap has reduced functionality to not potentially interfere with
applications.
For example, multi taps are not supported and Switch & Shift behavior.
Make sure to exit out of controller mode when the application closes.

Tap data
Once in controller mode and Tap data characteristic's notifications are enables, Tap data
characteristic will send tap events via notifications.
Packet format:
Byte 0 Byte 1 Byte 2
Tap code
Type: Unsigned Int8
Tap interval in milliseconds
Type: Unsigned Int16
The tap code is a binary combination of the tapping fingers with the following mapping:
• (LSB) Bit 0: thumb finger
• Bit 1: index finger
• Bit 2: middle finger
• Bit 3: ring finger
• Bit 4: pinky finger
• Bit 5: unused
• Bit 6: unused
• (MSB) Bit 7: unused

For example, when the user tapped all fingers, the tap code is 31 (or 0x1F). When the user
tapped both thumb and index (character N), the tap code is 3 (0x03).
When the tap is in left hand mode, the finger-to-bit mapping remains relevant.
Thumb tap on the right hand with the right-hand setting will set the same bit as the thumb tap on
the left-hand with the left hand setting.
The tap interval is the period from the previous tap in milliseconds. It's saturated at 65535
milliseconds and will not grow further.
